Why don't you just identify yourself with this paper recorder?
Okay.
This is Murray Bruce.
How do you spell it, Murray?
M-U-R-R-A-Y-B-R-U-C-E.
And your position in the organization?
One of the founding partners with Jesse and then with Carol.
And Carol's full name is?
Carol Fitzgerald.
Okay.
Come on, why not?
We're just talking.
Okay.
Jesse, we were talking about the books and how we actually get books.
We're not really at that position yet.
No, I guess actually what I was asking is if you're getting much enthusiastic support from the publishers, what their attitude is to this enterprise.
The publishers are starting to understand, and we're in the early days, and we're just now announcing
The publishers are beginning to understand this is a remarkable promotional opportunity, particularly for mid-list books, which is exactly the area of the greatest enthusiasm among the publishing staffs.
Those are the books that people like the best.
That the editors like.
The editors like.
You know, that the assistants like.
That everyone likes except the marketing people.
And they don't have a big promotional budget to market it.
I mean, the thing we always tell them is the thing about Don Imus and I was Amelia Earhart.
You know, here was a book they were going to publish 20, 25,000 copies.
They all loved it.
Imus' wife read it, made him read it.
He talked about it for five days, and now there are something like 270,000 books in print.
And it went as high as, I think, number seven on the bestseller list.
And our point is, if we can do that once and then twice and then a number of times, then we've created an awesome promotional mechanism for really deserving books.
Look at Oprah's cookbook by her cook.
We didn't.
No drinks?
Oh, I didn't.
The cookbook, Oprah Winfrey's Shem.
I mean, same thing.
That book sold in the hundreds of thousands, maybe even millions.
Right, but you see that those are very limited opportunities.
There's Oprah, and there's, you know, to a lesser extent, Charlie Rose, and to a greater extent, the Today Show.
And Pierre is supposed to be a great, every author would love to get on NPR.
That's an interesting question because, okay, you mentioned Imus.
He has how many million listeners?
Oprah has how many millions of viewers?
We don't really know what your audience is, and people do have to kind of go and tap into you, don't they?
Here's the thing we do say.
There are six million people currently on America Online.
Just by using America Online, just by typing and reading, they become better readers and writers.
So the cause of reading is advanced simply by the use of the medium, and it seems like a really natural intersection, the intersection of book publishing and AOL users.
For the sake of this piece, why don't we just have a little background here, how this thing was inspired and how it
Mario, why don't you do that?
It's a natural evolution from, I think, films that we've made together over the years.
Could you just give me, I've got some of Jesse's biographical background.
You do?
But I don't have yours, so maybe you can tell me.
I did 25 years of commercials in this country, of making commercials, and then in 1990, really got involved in making films about things, i.e.
documentaries.
Mm-hmm.
Here in New York?
Always based here in New York.
The documentaries stem from interview-driven filmmaking, where films are based on conversations, and you take these conversations, you then visualize them.
This led to America's Most Wanted television series.
I do profiles for that.
And Jesse and I had done, for Carol and with Carol, films for...
magazines, Condé Nast, particularly, Condé Nast publications, where we had done, they're basically interview-driven films, and then we visualized them.
We did this film, but one, I think, stunning one was about photographers, where we interviewed a bunch of photographers, brought them to life for the MBA.
The last photographers.
An original book of words?
Yes.
And they wanted something to show how publishing was changing, interestingly enough.
And you had, what we saw there was, photographers were originally adventurers and they had editors back home.
They went out into a wilderness and then their editors brought them to a public.
What had happened as the media changed to being far more controlling of its editorial, we found that the photographers themselves had to become entrepreneurial.
So that they had to figure out ways to get their photographs published.
They weren't automatically put out.
They had to figure out how to produce their own books.
They had to produce their own...
shows, and this is a pretty, we're talking about the portrait of the photographers, and as a result of this piece, you see, wouldn't this be great to do with authors, because they seem to be the last remaining persons not being made into, if you will, a star, not being featured, and they are after all the people who have the first word.
I mean, if the photographers were sort of the witnesses,
to what was happening, particularly with the Gil Perez piece.
But they put people who chose to witness things, what were in fact authors and writers, if not the first word, why not start making them into, doing stories about them.
And this
became an idea for a way of bringing authors and readership into the book business.
I mean, somebody looked at the book business.
The business of selling books?
Selling books.
And of getting the word out about books.
I mean, the more that we were growing up around Barnes & Noble getting larger and larger, this was about three years ago, two and a half years ago.
There's all this superstore business and bookstores were diminishing.
Your favorite bookstores were diminishing and the bigger bookstores were sort of offering a bestseller table and then endless aisle by the supermarket and very little help to find anything.
How people find books was, you know, how do you find anything?
How do you find a book if it's not an author you like, if it's not a blurb you sort of heard, or unless someone's given it to you?
So do you think fundamentally then that this
enterprise is inspired, is an inspired way to, an innovative way to sell books.
Is this basically what we're... On one level, it's a very inspired... To sell books.
Yes.
To tell people about books.
I mean, whether we sell the book or the people go down and ask for a book by name.
Books don't sell.
I think people buy books.
Yeah, that's the same point.
But people buy books off information.
It's not quite as simple as...
seeing a movie trailer, and you have a feel for an actor.
Each book is its own creature.
So it's really putting the information out and letting a smart person make an informed choice.
So these are the three principles here at this table, right?
Yeah, we're in.
And we've already got, Mario, if you can just identify yourself fully for the sake, please.
I'm Carol Fitzgerald.
I'm the publisher of the book report.
Okay.
And we argued with Jesse and... So how did you three come together?
Maybe you could tell me a bit about the... Murray and I had... Murray made a film... The different skills that you bring.
Murray had made a film for Carol when Carol was at Mademoiselle.
And we can give you all that documentation.
If you've got that stuff.
Yeah, we'll talk about it.
And then Carol left Mademoiselle and Murray and I were thumping around with this very good idea.
And...
There was a real organizational, business, visionary skill which we didn't have.
And Carol had all those skills, I think it's fair to say.
And we discovered that, you know, Buckminster Fuller says that the triangle is the strongest shape in nature.
It's the only... The domes are the only...
objects the only structures that don't blow down in hurricanes and so For that and other reasons we decided that as a triangle we could Cover all the bases much more efficiently and you think What's the time frame of this way?
When did you the three of you?
Ninety-five affirmative steps
May of 95.
May of 95 was when it crystallized to be a troika.
Right.
Then I went away for the summer.
Murray and Carol researched.
And when I was in Wyoming in September, allegedly writing a novel, it became clear that doing videos in bookstores, being the MTV books, doing any of those visual metaphors, was perhaps not the way to go.
That the work I had done...
writing about America Online, the forums I had led, our own experiences, all three of us being online, that all that gave us a much better opportunity online to create something that wasn't just a one-way publication, but to create an area that not only provided information about books, but that involved the community in the creation of
of that information.
Do you maintain day jobs, so to speak?
I mean, I know you're, there's a lot of, this is kind of on spec then, right?
Shooting craps with your destinies, I would think.
I always say that we all have had day jobs, big day jobs, that basically are funneling the support of this.
And people always say, gee, this is the future.
But, you know, this is not the future.
This is the present.
The future is something else.
You know, this is not an experimental medium.
This is six million people now, rapid growth.
It's not an experimental medium, but it certainly is an experimental endeavor.
Yeah, and that gives us a splendid opportunity to be the first, the biggest, the best.
I mean, why would you turn away from that?
I mean, I always say all the safety is at the edge.
I mean, this is an idea which later people will say, I wish I'd done that.
So we didn't want people to look around and say, gee, well, it's never been done, and then later someone else does it, and we say, we wish we'd done that.
It's not hard to get complicated ideas.
It's very hard to get a simple idea.
This is a very simple, easily explainable idea that a lot of people grasp immediately.
And that's the sort of idea that you can take and make into a thriving enterprise.
So beyond going online with proven technology and all that, what do you bring to make this happen?
this enterprise unique and distinctive and appealing, say, to America online.
Maturity.
But you said it's very easy to grasp.
What was the sales pitch?
It's us.
It's the Troika.
It's what we've put together.
It's the three of us.
Anybody can't go out and do this?
I'm just talking to myself.
Good quote.
It's us.
It's really, it's the three of us.
It's the way the three of us work together.
It's the way the three of us bring three different outlooks of this, in some ways, sharing a common look together to this project.
Also, do you say, is this your day job?
It's your day and your night job right now.
There is such a huge learn curve going on in online, in Internet, and the beauty of it is you come up with an idea, you can easily impact and make it happen.
What you're finding here is, yes, you have content, but that's one-third of what you need to produce to make a site terrific.
It's the technology.
It's the way it's going to look on the screen.
The writing is one thing, but it's no different than when you're laying out a magazine, except what you have to think about here is the third component, which is the interactivity.
There's a really basic thing, which is the book business is located in New York, and it's a relationship business.
This is not a garage band in Seattle where some kids get a little equipment together and decide to play.
This could only be done by people who had considerable experience in and around this business, in and around various other kinds of media.
and who are able to get the confidence not only of America Online, but of a great many people in publishing.
You also see this as a multimedia.
I mean, multimedia is an old word, but I can see it's going to become the new word all over again.
Because where this medium is going is into sight, sound, movement, trafficking, distribution.
It's going to be the new medium.
When did AOL come online as a partner?
We went to America Online at the start of this year.
And they came on very quickly.
I mean, they didn't have vibrant, interactive book areas at this level at that time, and they were looking to have one.
It was an obvious gap in their programming.
And they're based where?
Someplace on Ohio?
Now it's Dulles, Virginia.
So you had to go down there and make a present place?
This wasn't painful.
It wasn't, was it?
We've all gone to corporate offices in New York with much less result.
But you were going to do it with or without AOL?
No, we were going to do it with a Marathon Line or Microsoft, I think it's fair to say.
At least for the reason that this is not a garage band, this is a significant investment.
You needed a partner.
We needed an investor, and AOL is both an investor and a partner.
And I would explain and differentiate the difference between Microsoft and... Well, no.
The real thing is people always think, you know, this is a website.
You know, let us emphasize it is not a website.
And it's not a website yet for a very good reason.
AOL's technology is always dumped on by people who don't know better.
But AOL does chat and message boards and auditorium, live auditorium events, better than anybody else.
and much better than is now capable of being done on the web.
And that live stuff, that interactivity, is key to what we are doing.
And AOL very clearly was the superior choice for technological reasons, which is something that people never say about them and should.
No, the New York Times is...
They're going to launch their book review maybe at the beginning of the year.
As is the New York Review of Books.
And as is the New York Review of Books.
What will make yours unique?
We're not in competition with them.
That's the first thing.
What do they do that you don't do, and what do you do that they don't do?
First thing, it would be crazy to compete against brands of that stature at that level.
Brands, that's the word.
Brands is the way they talk about it in cyberspace.
B-R-A-N-D-S.
I mean, you know... I don't want to wrestle with the word when I'm describing the table.
The fact is, we wish to be the gold standard of what we do in cyberspace.
We are not in competition with anything that encourages reading and writing.
Our competition is...
Our competition is television.
Our competition is people who don't think reading applies to them.
Our competition is the general dumbing down of the culture.
What we're doing is creating a book community.
We are not just about reviews.
We are publishing fewer reviews, I think, probably than any site of kind.
Fewer reviews generated by us, more reviews generated by our readers.
And, you know, that's really the key.
This is not about the greater glory of Murray, Carol, and Jesse.
It's not about us and our editors telling the world what's good and how it is.
You have editors.
We do.
But it is not about... Our expertise consists of culling, consists of intuiting what our readership would like to hear about, would like to hear about as the basis for a conversation.
And it's the conversation that's key, not the dissemination of information.
So we're not a review, we're not a search engine, we're not a database.
Murray wants to say something.
Let me just follow up with one question.
You talk about...
nucleating this book community that's out there.
When you conceive of this book community, is it a printed book community?
I mean, is this a commitment on your part to the printed book?
No.
The book between hard coverings?
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
We're interested in the person comfortable.
I mean, as opposed to what, the magazine?
As opposed to this stuff.
Oh, hardly.
No, no, no, no, books.
The digital ones.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Disconception.
No, no, no, we're all interested in books.
I mean, I'm not concerned in where books are going.
I mean, what warm is in the shape?
Look, you know, as everyone has said, no one wants to take a laptop to bed.
You know, you don't want to take a lap to the beat.
And nobody does.
I mean, the books have been around forever, and they deserve to be.
So we're not... And I know no one who's ever read a book on a computer, by the way.
Do you know a person who's ever read a book?
Nor would you want to.
But you might invite them to download, print a chapter at a time, and use it later.
Or you might want to spend 10 minutes or 15 minutes at a time to just read some stuff and get some inspiration.
And then get some ideas, go to the bookstore, or click on and order a book, and have sent you in two days.
This represents a very convenient 20th century tool.
A bottom line long view of what we want to do is be the classroom of the 21st century.
That's where it would be the wet classroom of the 21st century.
And that is that people can access books of all kinds through here.
But we're not in competition with books.
We're fans of books.
We're serializing a book.
a fantastic book at launch and for the first seven weeks, a book called The Queen's Gambit by Walter Tevis.
And part of the reason we're doing it, a large part, is this fantastic novel is out of print.
And we want people to read it, and we want publishers to be reminded that it's out of print and get it back between hardcovers.
So, launch date, pardon me for jumping around.
August 26th.
We'll be up by the time you get this one.
And...
How will you gauge if you're successful?
Because the people at America Online says it's successful?
Or will there be some way to record the number of hits that you get or people that come in and... AOL is totally measurable.
Totally measurable service.
How you measure the success of your site is if you put out 40% of your material and 60% comes back.
That's not the measure.
AOL measures.
Usage.
through time that people spent on individual sites.
So, whereas on the web, you're not quite sure what a hit and a click actually means.
A hit often means somebody randomly hit your site, you know, was shocked and moved on, and that counts the same as somebody who actually spent time with an area on their own.
So this is qualitative.
They can actually decide, determine,
How many and how long?
Number of impressions.
But another level, and this may sound supercilious, I think we're successful already because we got it up.
It exists.
We made what we wanted to do without any interference.
This is the book report as we see it.
I would also say that the first week is ours, and after that we'll have to see what the readers want and if we can...
help them get there.
You call it the book report.
Do you visualize it as a magazine kind of a thing with a lot of different departments and areas?
It's easiest to talk about it as a magazine model, but online is its own life form.
This is something that could only exist in this medium.
It has departments just because I think it's easier for people to think of it that way.
The language really fails us.
We don't think of it as a site.
We don't think of it as an area.
We don't think of it as a zine.
You know, we really maybe should have a contest to figure out what it is.
You say it's its own medium, then.
Tell me if some of the... No, it's its own life form.
It's its own life form.
Life form.
Yeah, that's good.
Very good.
What features, then, what qualities...
Will it have that will be unique?
Unique?
Distinguish it from other platforms.
It's the first two-way conversation in the history of books.
It's gotten into that, so tell me a little bit about that.
What we always say is, our motto is, where readers meet readers and readers meet writers.
One way to look at that is that so much of our content is pitched to people to then catch and throw back to us.
to comment on, to add their views, to talk to one another about.
And the other part is... So tell me how this will happen.
I don't mean to interrupt, but what will happen?
Do you have an author sit down at a terminal and people will be able to... No, no.
Well, there are two kinds of conversations.
One, readers and readers, where readers meet readers.
And that forms a virtual book community.
That's one.
The other way is where readers meet writers.
Um...
Traditionally, when writers do events, do author forums online, there's no preparation.
They're just thrown up.
It always becomes what we say.
It's a press conference in a shopping mall, I always say.
What we want to do is treat it like the virtual version of a local book club so that you know three weeks ahead who's coming.
And we put up an interview with that author.
We put up a passage from the book.
We put up some discussion questions that are on our minds.
Prior to the appearance?
Three weeks before.
You can hit a button and buy the book.
So what happens is when we convene with that author, we've created essentially a local book club with the incredible, unprecedented bonus of the author's presence.
So you can have a really informed, interested, passionate conversation that's much more than this press conference.
Who are some of the authors that you scheduled?
We're scheduling now.
If you call us before publication, we can tell you.
I will go to work on this on the weekend.
He wants this for Labor Day.
But maybe I can do something with this.
Maybe we'll have some legacy.
certainly what I like to do.
I'm sorry, I interrupted.
You had your hand up.
No, you actually got to it.
It was about being the sort of down the road material.
The classroom issue is a big issue, but probably not what we should be talking about.
Are you going to invite criticism, response, comment?
On every, the bottom of every screen is right to us.
There's a response mechanism for people to write to us.
But in the message board, there'll be a chance for people to talk about their favorite authors, their favorite topics, whatever.
There's tons of area for self-expression on the site.
I think it's also, Jesse, you said that you're not in competition with the TBR or the New York Review.
And let's face it, they're...
Their job is to review, to give critical evaluations of books.
You're not going to be doing that, I get it.
No, you are.
You're not going to be saying this is junk, this is great.
No, there are several things to say.
We're in competition in two very small areas.
We're going to have free classifieds and free personals.
And personals ads are, as you know, a staple of a lot of literary publications.
Insofar as we review, it seems crazy if we're going to do very few
major reviews for us to tee off on books if you i mean if we can't find 52 books a year that we're crazy about then something's really off that's much more often just with us i'd say if a major book comes along and it's just an unqualified stinker and we're really upset about that then i think we might have to step up for it but we'd rather champion the stuff we love i mean uh
That's the basic philosophy of the column I've been writing for 18 years.
I said, how come you always write about the books that you like?
I said, well, first of all, it's my choice.
I'd rather write about the books that I like than the books I don't like.
But why waste everybody's time with a piece of... You know?
Because it's a selective... Right, and this is what takes us back to the mid-list books, because these are books that were written often out of love.
They weren't written to satisfy some huge advance.
They were often written without any advance by someone you never heard of.
What if one of your...
What are you going to call these people?
They're not viewers.
They're not readers.
Users.
Leaders.
Leaders, members.
Members.
So will there be a registration kind of a thing then?
Will they identify themselves?
Well, probably have a way for them to join us on the site.
At the beginning, we're still working on this forum, but it would have questions for them about what are you reading, what genres are you reading,
marketing questions.
How often do you buy books?
How many books do you read a month?
So we get some kind of flavor of who is using the site so that we can then tailor much of what we're doing.
Stop it is a good word, Murray.
To stock the site so that it's delivering the kind of material people are actually looking to use.
You can say what you want the person to read.
You have to see how people respond.
So it's sort of an ongoing focus group.
Have you defined your parameters?
I mean, there are 55,000 new titles.
So basically you start by putting X amount out, and until you start getting response, you really...
What if a lot of people want to read New Age books?
They are going to want to.
They are.
They are, and they're going to want to go to the Andrew Weill folder, and there's probably going to be a James Redfield study group, and there's going to be, I think, a very vibrant gay-lesbian area, and romance, I think, is going to blow right out, and we think that's terrific.
We're not here to be New York literary snobs who are telling other people that there's some
set of priorities that they need to observe.
You are not effective.
No.
I'm new to this.
We don't care what people read.
We care that they read.
They'll figure out their own priorities themselves.
So they're going to tell you what they want to see and you basically are going to respond to that.
Yeah, but you make that sound like television, right, where you keep going to the lowest denominator.
Well, you know,
I don't think that's the case.
I'm not saying that the author, guest of the week, every week, is going to be a romance novelist because we know that 44 or 48 percent of all paperbacks sold are romance novels.
No, we're going to do the stuff we want to do, but we're not going to discriminate against people...
who have perfectly viable reading programs for themselves.
Well, can't you create departments?
It is.
Yeah, it's all done.
So whatever you want, you can go there.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Are you going to give your users access to reviews that have been published?
By other people?
By other people and in other media.
Not at this point.
No.
No, you can go through our site to other things.
You can click from our site to other things.
What if I want to do what the Washington Post said about this book on the L.A.
Times?
Can you go there from us?
We're not planning to do that at this time.
Not at this time.
It would be interesting, though, wouldn't it?
It would be, but at a certain point it gets to be a rather rich meal, and we're interested in Alina Byrne right now.
And so August 26th is when this thing fires up, right?
So I'll actually be able to, and then I'll know better.
Right now I'm asking maybe very naive questions.
It would really be interesting to actually have people like me.
be there for that day and to experience the launch because it's like anything else.
I mean, it's sort of an interesting idea to have you actually be with the launch because it's not like Cape Canaveral.
It is everything.
And yet?
Why don't we take you through it?
You want to turn this off for a bit?
Again, you're producing new things to go on, right?
Yes, exactly.
Some features of this will be produced daily, some will change twice a week, and some will change weekly.
What we'll start out is with a game plan of how often we're going to make each of those changes.
And then, once again, usage will drive.
Maybe one of those features needs to not be changed twice a week.
Maybe it only changes once.
And maybe something that we were planning to change only once needs to change more often.
Okay, so why don't you just show me some stuff.
Did Jesse show you anything, Nicole?
I'm sorry?
Did Jesse show you any of this?
It was a very...
Word quick.
Okay.
But it is set up like a book.
What it is, it's not a book.
It's more like a file effect.
It's more like your notes, what you would take away from, you know, when you were finishing a book, your favorite passages or whatever.
What this front screen is designed to do is tell you that new content has gone up every day with a dated left-hand side of the page.
Our tagline, which is where readers meet readers and readers meet writers,
TBR today, which I'll get you to, and we can show you.
Can I get like a copy of this or a piece of paper?
I'll probably get you a screenshot sometime next week.
Okay.
Because right now I can't print this.
This isn't an area where I can print off of.
All right.
Can we help?
Let me just tell you, we have must-reads, book matters, reviewers, author guests.
Reviews.
So there are reviews.
Is it now staff-produced reviews?
Staff-produced reviews.
TBR is online book clubs, personal.
So there are one, two, three, there are six.
And what do you call these little things?
Those icons?
Those icons.
Okay.
These six different departments.
Actually, there's also message boards and chat, which are two of the most important features on America Online.
And it's something that makes the service unique from the web because there is the interactivity that can go on between the members.
Okay.
And over here on the left are three promotable features.
The quote of the actual day will actually be up here and will change daily and will be clickable to get you further into the site.
The quote will be from an author or... Well, maybe from an author.
It may be...
A couple of notes ago, there was a fabulous quote by Ron Carew when his daughter was dying that we thought was just fabulous.
And it was the quote of the day.
And it was one of those quote moments that you just don't forget.
It was on Jesse's on the wall of his study.
Absolutely.
So that actually will move.
The quote will actually be over here.
Then on the bottom, this will get you back to we're housing a channel on America Online called Learning and Culture.
So if you wanted to see other features on the Learning and Culture channel, you'd be able to click here.
Find is, if you wanted to find, say, an article on John Gresham or whatever, you'd be able to click on this button and see what else we printed already or written already in the past, archivable kind of features, so you could figure that out.
Right to us is on every screen, and our keyword is book report.
When you log on to America Online, just as I typed in Hothouse 1 there, you would type in book report and go directly to us.
Okay.
Find is, just say, find Baz Baines, a gentle madness.
Exactly.
That's exactly it.
If it had done something on it, it would be there.
Now, everything is not completely built at this point, but here we can take you to the TBR Today screen.
On the screen, once again, we developed an icon that says to us it's TBR Today, and this is the first editor's letter.
Going down the left, which is, Jesse, does he have a copy of that?
He does.
Okay, great.
He has a wide cyberspace.
Great.
So this has been clicking to past editors' letters, and we've also developed our charity is Literacy Partners.
Have you spoken to him about why Literacy Partners?
No, but we will.
Okay.
And actually, we can click on this.
And what it will be is, what Literacy Partners is,
what our participation is with literacy partners and how people can participate with literacy partners as well.
On the right-hand side of the screen is today's schedule.
which will be highlighted items, and on the left is how to use the book report.
So if you're coming here for the first time and you want to understand what the book report actually is, that content will always be there, perhaps spearheading a different feature every day.
These are hot link buttons that can link you to other places on the site so that you're driving the users to different places of things that you'd want them to see.
That's the beauty of interactivity, is you can actually get them moving throughout, which is something that doesn't happen with a magazine quite the same way.
Unless you've got a tab of... When you sign into America online, it says, Welcome.
How are the people going to know about TBR?
Is it going to be there and all these things?
You are going to do that for us, Nick.
Well, I'll do it.
Yeah, I have.
No, probably there will be... Promotion during the first month.
We will do a bunch of... There will be advertising.
It's just very standard.
Yeah.
This is a daily poem.
Poem will change daily.
These are archived.
We're actually putting up some archived poems as well, just because we feel that the user coming to this area doesn't need to see just one poem.
They will be able to submit their original poem and also suggest a poem or poet.
So the interactivity, once again, is the user being able to define, I would like to submit my own poem.
How large is your staff, by the way?
This is it.
Three editors.
And in turn or so.
Did you want to show me something?
I'm sorry.
You can do a poll and results of test polls.
You can register and submit a poll question.
A little bit about the set.
I thought it would be over here.
And a little bit about each member of the set.
the one with your screen in blue at the top, the new AOL client, if you hit on that, you can directly respond to that person.
So you immediately send an email?
Or you go to the forum and send an email?
Yeah, that's joined, so that's where you get your base of people.
Yeah, good.
Cool.
Let me see if there's anything else in the picture.
You can take it directly to the author, picture, jacket of the book, and...
copy and keep people moving you can go here and continue reading and so it's called the book the book report the book report and the name of the company the the book report okay we're not piece of cake it's not that hard is it we've all thought of lots of clever names for other things yeah this isn't about being clever this is about being good about being right
And, you know, at some point you would hope that this, you could make a living off of this, I would assume, of this.
Well, what is a living?
Well, that's a general way of saying you would hope that it would be profitable if you justify the profit.
It would be profitable to our investors?
There are other aspects to this.
This is a question of how does one hope to make
money out of this.
There are several ways of making money here.
One is we get a percentage of the time users spend on America Online so that you pay to use America Online.
You don't pay to come to the book report.
We get a percentage of the time they spend.
Because as we said earlier, it's measurable.
So we know precisely how we get a percentage of any advertising we bring in and any, what is it, click-throughs?
No, any advertising is great.
They don't have any click-throughs on AOL.
Any hotline for themselves.
And from there, beyond this, it's also whatever books are sold.
We get a percentage of whatever books are sold.
Advertising, have you pursued that at all?
We felt that we wanted to do that first.
We have an advertising listing line.
We're ready to pursue it.
My background was promotion and marketing and merchandising.
you know if you go over the world wide web and you ask for books or something amazon books pops up right now suggesting whether or not they're coming on that's not the point but this is one way that you could sell books i mean you would give time to a a retailer or a
I'm not allowed to disclose at this point how we're planning to sell books.
But I sell books on AOL at this point.
But there are many ways to sell books at this point.
And what Amazon does is it sells books, but there are very short features about the book.
This is a conversation about books that you can then go on and buy the book from.
That's the difference.
I think that one of the things you want to do is you finish reading a book, and you close the book,
You don't want that book to end.
You want to be able to go over and have a conversation with someone about it immediately.
And that's what you can do with this.
You can actually close the book and begin to have a conversation about it.
And that's what really the book report is about.
It's steering you towards the books that you're interested in and also giving you a venue where you can have a conversation about them.
And it's convening the world's largest book club because when you close the book, that's what you want to do.
I want to be able to continue to talk about it.
You can't wait for the follow-up book, or you can't wait to talk about what you learned in that book.
Are you going to give me a biographical thing on yourself?
Do you want recipes on each of us?
I have Jesse.
I don't have yourself.
This is a paradigm.
We do a feature called what they're reading.
Left-hand screen, what a celebrity or what a famous writer is reading.
Right-hand screen, what an American online subscriber is reading.
No difference in quality.
And that's why I say in some ways this is a very 60s idea.
This is the idea of creating a community, an affinity group,
of people who share a common love.
And so the distance, in worldly terms, between the AOL user and the celebrity is insignificant.
As we always say, there's no distance between minds.
And I always quote Teilhard de Chardin, who said, when minds rub together, the mental temperature goes up.
And, you know, that's the business we're in.
So you say books, books, books.
Yes, books.
Books are not just between the covers.
Books are the ideas of the animated force.
So we're not coloring between the lines here.
And that's why all these things that are book reviews are very different from us because we can take an idea that's in a book and then blow it out and see wherever it goes.
The book is just the launching pad for what we can do.
When does this start?
On the 26th?
Yeah.
When?
Like what time?
You wake up in the morning, somebody's hit a button, and we're there.
So that's it?
Yeah.
Are you going to be here when that happens?
I guess you can be at home when that happens.
It doesn't matter.
I have no idea.
Are you excited?
Are you nervous?
Did I quote Erasmus to you?
No.
Hold on a second.
One of the things we did...
when we started we asked all the people we were thinking of hiring to write some essays and one of them was about a moment in a Salinger story when the kid doesn't want to go on the radio program and the brother says no you shine your tears for the fat lady and everyone had an image of what the fat lady was and the point is and the fat lady is what turns out to be Jesus does it not
The thing is, one of the things we really work on is communicating one person at a time, one reader at a time.
I was at an event, and Jerry Goodman, Adam Smith, was there, and I was explaining to him what we were doing, and he said, gee, that sounds like it takes a lot of time.
And I thought, yes, it does.
It's not efficient, but it's very satisfying to actually meet your readers, to meet your audience, and then
to hear back from them.
I mean, after 30 years of putting out stuff which, you know, you hear back a couple of months later in a few pieces of reader mail, this is much more instantaneous.
You're much more in a conversation with people.
And it's, you know, it's sort of like teaching.
I've taught for a long time, and I've always got that the teacher learns more than the students.
I mean, the teacher is his or her own best student.
And so the...
whatever good this does for our readers, we have learned an amazing amount about all forms of little things about communicating and what works in the world.
I'm at the age where people start to know less and to ossify and
You know, I feel pretty much the way I did when I was 19, which is... I'm a few years older than you, though.
That's all a myth.
I learn more and I enjoy more.
You know, I'm doing hundreds of interviews for this guy.
I'm crazy.
Traveling the country and the world interviews.
I mean, I should be doing at home.
Right.
But I would much rather be...
Well, this is the place to read that quote.
It's reading this James Carroll book.
He says, Erasmus defined happiness as the wish to be what you are.
And, I mean, we are working these insane hours.
I mean, Carroll and I are here all the time.
And, you know, Carroll has got two small children and has to drive to see them.
But, you know, this is, you know, it's very much let's put on a show.
It's just so fun.
And you don't have to ask permission.
That's, I think, the single most, as they say, empowering thing.
If we get an idea, we can do it, and we can do it that day.
That's what two of us work.
Oh, yeah, Jesse, what do you think?
Oh, you're like, Carol, good idea.
Or, you know, he'll clean it up.
And you might want to give me a quote on...
your corporate partner is allowing you the freedom to do this, too.
I mean, they're not saying, they're not dictating to you, you don't have to ask permission to do some of these things.
If anything, they provide a strong support.
American online provides a strong support, guiding us through the one process.
Yeah, I mean, they knew they needed a book area of like this, and they knew it had to come from New York, and they knew it should come
from people like us, and we walked in and fit everything that was needed.
Can you explain what greenhouses are?
Yeah, I should also explain.
There are areas and then there are areas.
The greenhouse is the part of America Online that backs what they call infopreneurs.
Interesting.
In other words, so that you get...
really the best technical, promotional, and advisory support that ALL has.
And of the areas that have really blown out for ALL in the last year or so, the majority of those have come out of the greenhouse.
I mean, this is a real launching pad for
the best talent they can find.
They're not just throwing you up on the net worth and seeing if you can survive.
It's sponsoring creativity in a way, isn't it?
It's just like giving somebody a grant and saying, do something.
Let's see what you can do.
That's great.
It may even be that, you know... I'm going to have a literacy chapter in my book.
Okay.
One of the things that we wanted to do is be really proactive.
And it's, again, not being a book review.
It's like being involved in the book community.
And that also means an awareness that there are tens of millions of people who cannot read above the fifth grade level and wanting to do something about that so that we're not...
accidentally, by neglect, contributing to the distance between cultures.
And so we decided to tithe a portion of our income and to encourage AOL to match it to a group called Literacy Partners, formerly Literacy Volunteers.
And AOL has matched our donation and
What will happen is on our site that this is our cause and you can get information about them from us.
And then if you want more information, you hit a little button and you're looking at a piece of email which is already addressed to Literacy Partners.
And there are some events we're working on where we will be the online host of...
of charity events, which will also feature the writing of people you'd never expect to see online because, you know, so we are really, I mean, the idea of, you know, a democratic venture, a populist venture is at the core of what this is about.
That's all.
Let's take stuff.
And you are going to give me the names of them.